it is the greatest aviation mystery of
all time Malaysian Airlines flight mh370
somewhere in the far depths of the
Indian Ocean
like a massive passenger jet and the
remains of its 239 passengers and crew
this is Aviation's greatest mystery the
last time the world had this interest in
a missing airplane the captain was
Amelia Earhart tonight the world's top
air crash investigators and experts
re-examine its last hours its final
moments why how and where it's officer's
place to search mh370 the Situation Room
good evening and welcome to a special
edition of 60 minutes I'm Tara Brown
right now 3,000 kilometers from Perth in
the middle of the southern Indian Ocean
there's a state-of-the-art ship
searching for mh370 what it's doing may
be the final act in the mystery the
tragedy of the missing Boeing triple7
aircraft and its 239 passengers and crew
the investigation into the fate of mh370
has been without precedent so why after
more than four years has it not been
found to answer that question we've
brought together some of the world's
leading aviation crash investigation and
oceanography experts for a final
reckoning was mh370 a catastrophic
accident or mass murder
they are the most terrifying accidents
of all terrible errors by man disastrous
mechanical malfunctions deliberate
carnage by hijackers or the rarest of
all mass murder by their pilot but they
always have a cause and we always find
out why it's the job of men like these
Martin Dolan former head of the
Australian Transport Safety Bureau he
led the search for mh370 veteran air
crash investigator Larry Vance from
Canada and American John Cox global air
Safety Specialist world-renowned
oceanographer professor charissa
periyachi and Simon Hardy senior Boeing
triple7 pilot and instructor so we're
coming up to the second engine failure
point which is now tonight our experts
reveal new evidence how they believe
mh370
was brought down we test fly its final
minutes
still accelerating so it's probably
supersonic now okay we're gonna crash
now that that's it from the aircraft's
actual flight plan it's mysterious route
is reexamined
with chilling discoveries what technical
reason is there for this and after three
months of thinking about it I finally
got the answer and the latest forensic
evidence put to the test so we see bits
of wreckage and you see clues there's
all kinds of evidence in here Tara if
this was a high-speed dive this piece
would not exist the logic that was used
is based on evidence it's not correct so
which parts of the evidence are not
correct
the fact that the airplane ran out of
fuel it didn't run out of fuel the fact
that so your evidence for that is the
fact that the flaps were down in the
conductor to confirm the fact that they
you can't give a speculation the flaps
may have been down well you'd know it's
speculation to you to me there's
evidence so we know that there's
electricity back in the airplane after
an interruption in the in the cause for
that interruption is that's my question
some people are arguing what are you
arguing some it's simple it's obvious my
calculations said it's in there to these
men mh370 is not lost it's unfinished
business if you take history and you
look back it says we'll find it we
always have so if history is our guide I
remain optimistic the flight that
shocked the world left Kuala lumper on
March 8 2014 on board were 12 crew
members and 227 passengers including
eight from Australia
at 42 minutes past midnight local time
mh370 sets off for Beijing
in the cockpit is 53 year old Malaysian
captain zaharie ahmad shah a highly
respected veteran of the skies by his
side his inexperienced co-pilot 27 year
old farik abdul hamid on his first ever
flight as a triple 7 copilot for 37
minutes mh370 is just another commercial
aircraft in the sky approaching the
point at which Malaysian air traffic
control will hand over to Vietnam then
captain zaharie makes a last routine but
now infamous radio transmission two
minutes later its transponder and other
ground communications are turned off
right on the border of Malaysian and
Vietnamese airspace the Boeing triple7
literally vanishes from the face of the
earth inside Australia's air
investigation headquarters ATSB chief
Martin Dolan got the call when the plane
is missing when all the communication
has gone are you thinking at that point
catastrophic accident or are you
thinking pilot gone bad that point what
we are thinking is there is an aircraft
missing there is at least a possibility
that some people have survived and
certainly in my experience the first
thought is not what happened there
people still alive and can we do
something about that so in the first
hours it's they're mobilizing the search
effort there hopefully rescue efforts
where's the debris those questions were
central to everyone if there were
survivors you've got to find them so
it's those first hours that turn into
days that where's the airplane and then
the evidence starts rolling in now
something's wrong now something doesn't
fit the what I'll call standard profile
for accident investigation something
with this one is different in this day
and age as sad as it is do you assumed
immediately yes if this had been a
terrorist event as we would normally
classify them then it's almost
invariable that a terrorist organization
will claim credit for the event and
there was no such claim made in this
case for the families of those aboard
mh370 March 8th 2014 was the beginning
of a nightmare
that has no end four years of questions
four years of fading hope there will
ever be answers and everyone who lost
someone has lived lonelier lives missing
the moments that might have been and
that's certainly how Amanda Lawton feels
[Music]
the beach never felt the same for that
first year to think they could be out
there somewhere
this constantly reminded you some you
look up in the sky and there's an
airplane up in the sky and you just
instantly question how does something
like that disappear you know Amanda's
parents Bob and Cathy Lawton were on a
trip of a lifetime
a long-planned holiday to China with
friends Rodney and Mary burrows it's
just knowing what happened people don't
go on a holiday and not come back
because they've disappeared it's it's
not fair why do you think it's so
important to find out what happened the
world needs to know what happened to
mh370 how how does a Boeing triple7
disappear could this happen again we
need to find our loved ones so we're in
so much pain my sister's family it
doesn't get any easier like coming up
dreadful mistakes as it happened in the
US there would have been a military
fighter jet with this aircraft within 20
minutes and somebody was looking out the
window the pilots bizarre personal
farewell to his hometown
moment as mass-murder what do we think
has happened to the passengers at this
point
that's next on 60 minutes to the
frustration of families whose loved ones
perished so many possible answers about
the fate of mh370 were lost in the
immediate aftermath of the planes
disappearance one of the greatest is
stunning oversight by Malaysian
authorities that meant the massive
initial search was focused in the wrong
place
incredibly it took the Malaysians four
days to admit they were searching in the
completely wrong direction
for those full wasted days search
aircraft and ships scoured the ocean
between Malaysia and Vietnam without
finding a trace of mh370 on the fourth
day
Malaysia's then Prime Minister Najib
Razak called his first press conference
and dropped a bombshell the Royal
Malaysian Air Force primary de data
showed that an aircraft which was
believed but not confirmed to be mh370
did indeed turn back immediately after
dropping off civilian radar the
Malaysian military tracked the plane as
a dramatically changed course veering
back across the Malaysian mainland these
movements are consistent with deliberate
action by someone on the plane to the
experts in the Situation Room
Malaysia's failure to detect the rogue
jet immediately was an extraordinary
security lapse
how can a plane fly around like this and
not alert authorities I mean if it's
being spotted on the military radar if
it happened in the US or in the UK there
would have been a military fighter jet
with this aircraft within 20 minutes
that does sound like a terrorist dream
you can fly through here an area that
does have military radar and not being
picked up did the military perceive a
threat and if the answer to that is no
then they're you know a low alert
environment but I think part of the
lessons learned is that even though the
airplane may not present a threat if
it's out of position we need to know why
could a catastrophic malfunction fire or
any other accident have caused the
aircraft's 180 degree change of course
our experts say no are we all in
agreement that there could be no
accident scenario that would explain
what looks like the controlled flight of
the plane at the beginning you can
develop scenarios that potentially
explain the facts that we know them in
that stage of the flight where the
aircraft is tracked but if you add them
up they are so remote in likelihood that
you can say effectively you can limit
that it's the probability issue and you
you put these together the probabilities
become literally one in a trillion I
don't think that there's a reasonable
accident scenario that's exactly right
too many too many coincidence our triple
7 pilots Simon Hardy has reconstructed
captain zaharie armatures actual flight
plan from the military radar and made a
remarkable discovery
mh370 s pilot avoided detection by
either Malaysian or time military radar
by flying along the border crossing in
and out of each country's airspace as
the aircraft went across Thailand
Malaysia it runs down the border which
is wiggling underneath means it's going
in and out of those two countries which
is where their jurisdictions are so both
of the controllers aren't bothered about
this mysterious aircraft because it's oh
it's gone it's not in our in our space
anymore so there's a reason deliberate
yes as a reason if you were
commissioning me to do this operation
and try and make a triple 7 disappear I
would do exactly the same thing as far
as I'm concerned it's very accurate
flying and I think it did the job
because we know as a fact that the
military did not come and insert the
aerial
but Simon found something even more
disturbing in captain zaharie's flight
plan detail of mh370 s unexplained
strange turn at Penang in the first of
the flight simulations he'll run for us
tonight he reveals captain zaharie and
dipped his wing to see Penang his
hometown you look very carefully you can
see it's actually a turn to the left
then start a long turn to the right and
then do another left turn so I spent a
long time thinking about what this could
be what technical reason is there for
this and after two months three months
of thinking about it I I finally got the
answer
somebody was looking out the window in
your opinion why did he want to have a
look at the net it might be a long an
emotional goodbye or a short emotional
goodbye to his hometown after leaving
Penang mh370 runs the military radar
gauntlet undetected for nearly 400
kilometers to the northwest before
dropping out of range to the Situation
Room
it's another clearly deliberate move by
whoever is in control of the aircraft by
now the crew and passengers would have
surely known something was terribly
wrong what do we think has happened to
the passengers at this point the thing
that gets discussed the most is that at
the point where the pilot turned the
transponder off that he depressurized
the airplane and which would disable the
passengers there is no reason not to
believe that that's what the pilot did
because that would be consistent with
everything else that the pilot did and I
would be comforted in thinking that
that's probably what happened but if the
plane had not been depressurized do you
think that there would have been
attempts to contact people from the
plane would there have been phone calls
a lot more opportunity to do that that's
for sure
I think that if if you go down into your
deep thoughts you think that's probably
the most likely thing that the pilot
would do
given his intention to make the airplane
disappear and not wanting any
interference from the back or any
anybody using cellphones or anybody
trying to call people that's that's in
my opinion that's probably what happened
you asked the question I'll give you
that answer so it's the nature of the
silence around this airplane that makes
history so good every day that went by
the mystery grew deeper and this became
very quickly unlike any accident in
aviation history the last time that the
world had this interest in a missing
airplane the captain was Amelia Earhart
coming up more damning evidence against
the road captain he did it deliberately
and the mysterious six-hour flight to
nowhere the airplane was flown to this
part of the ocean for one single reason
not to be found
forever that's next on 60 minutes we now
know that flight mh370 made a gigantic
u-turn just after it disappeared from
air traffic control screens
it was then tracked by military radar
flying back over Malaysia and out into
the Indian Ocean a route that seems
inexplicable unless you contemplate the
unthinkable that captain zaharie
armature had planned his own death and
those of his passengers and crew as a
terrible few pilots had done before him
Tuesday March 24 2015 40 minutes after
takeoff from Barcelona enroute to
Dusseldorf German wings flight 9525
disappears from radar over the French
Alps
the Airbus a320 was carrying a hundred
and fifty passengers and crew including
Melbourne mother and son Carol and Greg
Friday all were killed instantly when
the plane crashed at high speed into a
mountainside the cockpit voice recorder
would later reveal the awful truth it
wasn't an accident but mass murder
when the planes captain left the cockpit
to go to the bathroom his copilot
andreas Lubitz locked him out the
stricken captain could be heard trying
to break his way back in as Lubitz sent
the plane into a kamikaze dive and
Germanwings wasn't the first case of
pilot suicide somewhere on that tape the
copilot makes a statement in Arabic of a
religious nature that has some reference
into going into death in 1999 Egypt air
flight 990 plunged into the Atlantic
Ocean east of New York killing all 217
on board US investigators found that
copilot Jamil Albert ooty deliberately
crashed the plane apparently in revenge
at being accused of sexual misconduct by
his employer and there have been other
pilot suicide mass murders over the
years with hundreds of innocent lives
lost did those crimes set the stage for
mh370 and captain zaharie ahmad shah the
spectra of pilots suicide is raised
because it comes into question what
happens after the plane is lost to the
military radar he was killing himself
unfortunately he was killing everybody
else on board and he did it deliberately
pilot suicide we have seen some very a
very few very unfortunate cases of it
because you're constantly evaluated
you're constantly put under stress
you're constantly tested it just comes
with the with the job you know to have
somebody just snap and elect to take
their own life is a tragedy but to do it
and commit mass murder at the same time
it's very hard for me to even begin to
understand it and in saman it looked
really hard for you to even watch it
yeah any any aircraft coming to grief
and people coming to grief inside it is
something that we're focused on avoiding
we don't even let people crash the
simulator in the course of your training
you
let the guy crash the simulator is
called negative training and you don't
want to go into his mind
even in the pretend situation of a
simulator if captain zaharie ahmad shah
had been intent on killing himself and
all onboard mh370 then this next
discovery was confounding instead of
crashing into the sea immediately the
plane had kept flying for another six
hours but with all its communication
systems dead where it had gone was
anyone's guess ten days after mh370
vanished engineers at Britain's Inmarsat
shocked the world one of its satellites
had picked up a series of faint data
signals from the aircraft's engines
proving they'd kept running for six
hours the signals were meant for the
engines manufacturer to monitor them in
flight never designed to provide
location data for the aircraft but
Inmarsat engineers knew the precise
position of their satellite above the
Indian Ocean a series of extraordinary
calculations revealed the distance of
the plane from that satellite at each of
the signals plotting those distances
gave them seven arcs through which the
plane must have passed the seventh and
last arc put the planes final location
somewhere in a vast air corridor that
ran north as far as Kazakhstan and south
deep into the Indian Ocean this new
satellite information has a significant
impact on the nature and scope of the
search operation tell me what that
corridor looks like how big is that
corridor what direction are we talking
about well all we were measuring was the
distance from a satellite that sits over
the middle of the Indian Ocean
so the those arcs are very reliable
pieces of information the problem is
that there's a whole set of distances
from the satellite they could reach from
the southern Indian Ocean all the way to
Central Asia all we knew was there was
this arc that and somewhere along it was
where the aircraft's flight ended
[Music]
at ammas at headquarters in London
analysts pulled off a final calculation
using the satellite data as Inmarsat's
chief revealed there was no doubt mh370
flew south we can give you a likely area
of the Southern Ocean but we can't tell
you exactly where to look but as the
world's eyes turned south to one of the
wildest and most remote stretches of
ocean on earth there is a single
collective question why would anyone
want to fly the plane deliberately to
this part of the ocean to make it
disappear the airplane was flown to this
part of the ocean for one single reason
and it was because the pilot wanted to
disappear forever
never to be seen again not to be found
forever
ten days after mh370 went missing the
real search could finally begin an
international alliance of ships and
planes scoured several million square
kilometers of the southern Indian Ocean
but where there should have been a
massive debris field created by its
impact with the water not a trace of the
aircraft or its passengers was found
[Music]
what would we expect to see if there was
a high impact crash I can speak to that
because I worked on Swiss Air 111
accident it was a high-impact crash we
had two million pieces
that were created by hydrodynamic forces
as the airplane entered the water at
high speed if if this airplane entered
the water at high speed you would expect
to see an equivalent amount of damage
sorry isn't oceanographer tell us about
this part of the ocean it is it is a
very hostile area there are lots of
waves and wind so it is rough you know
it took with ten days before the search
actually came to this part in the ten
days there were two cyclones so there
was a lot of mixing and a lot of very
big seas which would have also broken up
part of the stuff that we're talking
about so our job at this stage was we're
going to have a search where do we
search we search in the area that the
aircraft is most likely to be it's not
the place where the aircraft is
guaranteed to be but by our best
assessment on all the information that
was available to us at the time where is
the aircraft most likely to be that's
where we concentrate our resources
coming up have we finally located the
right area to search it's in there it's
obvious it's an obvious thing to do it's
obvious is place to search and MH 370's
final seconds if I'm gonna make the
aircraft disappear I will continue to be
there I will make sure I'm there to the
end that's next on 60 minutes the one
vital clue investigators had about the
fate of mh370 was satellite data showing
it had been flown to the further
stretches of the southern Indian Ocean
but the deepening mystery would not be
cracked until the plane itself was found
so now Australia took charge of the
investigation running what would be the
biggest undersea search in history
using every possible known parameter
satellite data fuel load and probable
cruise speed the ATS be mapped out a
search area for mh370 covering 120,000
square kilometers of the ocean floor the
effort was coordinated by the Australian
Transport Safety Bureau under its
commissioner Martin Dolan so today what
do you think happened at the end of the
flight I still think the weight of the
evidence which is why the search has
been concentrated where it is is that
for whatever reason it's unlikely there
were control inputs at the end of flight
and therefore the aircraft spiraled into
the water
and crashed the 80s B's insistence that
mh370 fell from the sky in a steep
seemingly uncontrolled dive was based on
their highly technical recalculation of
the satellite data which showed a
probable extremely fast descent the
search area defined by this death dive
scenario was 25 nautical miles either
side of the seventh arc if that was the
most probable scenario if that's what
happened to the plane why haven't you
found it that's a question that's
becoming more pointed as we eliminate
more of the search area do you accept
that the other possibility is that the
plane was controlled right to the end
we've always accepted that there was a
possibility that was the case what does
that do to the potential search area
then it's an almost impossible task and
with the resources governments are
likely to make available it would be
impossible relying on the satellite
calculation that mh370 made a steep
high-speed descent there are two primary
scenarios
the first is the so-called death dive
that has dictated the 80s B's for year
200 million dollar search for mh370 the
second is that captain zaharie maximized
his fuel range at altitude then used the
speed of his dive to glide the aircraft
to a controlled landing on the ocean but
could any pilot do that captain Simon
Hardy will try first though he will fly
the ATS B's assumed death dive I'm going
to turn off the right engine now so the
aircraft's gonna start slowing down and
the left engine comes up to compensate
for the fact that we've lost one of them
Simon is doing what he's almost never
done in a simulator deliberately
allowing his aircraft to crash and the
assumption at this point is that
nobody's in control of the planet so
we're not going to touch it we'll just
watch and see what happens so five miles
to go thirty five seconds after flying
for seven and a half hours the plane is
at the very limit of its range as it
runs out of fuel we're entering the
death dive this is the point it's only
engine off you've lost all your
instruments which is great
within a matter of seconds it begins a
catastrophic dive from which there will
be no recovery the speeds washing off
now even more because we've lost that
lost that engine and now it's starting
to turn even in a simulator it is a
sobering experience now coming up
warning saying Bank angle
this is overspeed warning not pull-up
terrain it's now saying you're gonna hit
the hit the ground and this this rate of
descent you've got 10,000 feet ago it's
still accelerating
so it's probably supersonic now in this
particular okay we're gonna crash now
though that's it
okay stop that's pretty horrible isn't
it from cruising altitude to ocean
surface it's all over in less than two
minutes putting the plane not far from
where it finally ran out of fuel how far
did we travel we traveled eleven point
nine miles from the time that second
engine failed do you think what we've
just shown actually happened I don't
think it happened no because I think
that that somebody was controlling the
aircraft to the end the death type thing
isn't realistic as far as I'm concerned
then leaves another scenario well it
leaves the scenario that this was a
mission by one of the crew to hide the
aircraft as far away from civilization
as possible now we run the counter
scenario taking into account the 80s B's
calculation of a high-speed descent
could MH 370's pilot have pulled out of
the so-called death dive and how much
further could he have flown before
landing on the water so we're coming up
to the second engine failure point
within moments of the second engine
running out of fuel where once again
spiraling into what looks like a
catastrophic dive 5,000 feet minute
6,000 8,000
9008 score scale deflection so now I'm
going to recover the aircraft only this
time in the skilled hands of a pilot the
plane is brought back under control the
speeds coming back with no power and the
most rudimentary of controls the Boeing
triple7 is actually flying again so now
we're just flying with no engines were
just a huge glider you seem to pull the
plane out of that death dive
effortlessly can you do that yeah you
can do it I think if you put any pilot
here he would be able to do the same
thing our journey to the ocean surface
will take a full nine minutes and add
nearly a hundred nautical miles to our
flight five hundred feet 300 feet 100
now
[Music]
and that's crashed
that's it a controlled crash that raises
fundamental questions about the central
assumption that guided the search for
mh370 the total travelled is eighty
eight point four which puts us way
outside the search area that is
currently being do it done so if you ask
me has ever been a chance of finding the
aircraft the answer's no whether mh370
was under the control of its captain
zaharie ahmad shah until the very end is
the question dividing the situation room
with Martin Dolan adamant the ATS B's 25
nautical mile search corridor is still
the most likely the width along the arc
of the likely location of the aircraft
no one is arguing with what we continue
to have okay you feel free to argue
something some people are arguing we
remain confident in the inequality of
the mathematical analysis of those
signals what are you arguing something
I'm arguing if the ATSB have said that
the end of flight scenario could be that
there's somebody there then it's gonna
go way beyond 25 nautical miles
if someone's flying it you can see
there's a dark area there which is the
Goldfinch fracture zone which runs up
through the whole area my calculation
said it's in there and so what I wanted
was to go another 40 50 miles it's
simple it's obvious it's an obvious
thing to do it's obvious is place to
search so Martin why not look there why
not search that area if it's so simple
so obvious so we didn't dismiss that out
of mind and we were weighing up a range
of different evidence for Martin Dolan
and the ATS B's long-held focus on an
unpiloted uncontrolled dive
is the moment of truth if you accepted
that there was a pilot controlling the
plane at the end wouldn't the most
likely search area would be different
yes so I accept you have to prioritize
so did you get your priorities wrong if
we don't end up finding the aircraft in
the search area then the conclusion is
that we focused on the wrong set of
priorities yes
Martin's admission has huge implications
for the search and the motivation for
captain zaharie's mysterious flight
south so I guess the question is if if
captain zaharie was intent on committing
suicide why would he fly the plane for
another six hours to make it disappear
simple as that
he was taking it to a pre destination
someplace that he had planned to take it
and he flew that six hours to get it
there the airplane on the bottom of the
ocean right now as I see it the fuselage
is in one piece the left wing is still
on it the right wing may be off the
engines are separate but you basically
have four pieces of airplane down there
it's not it's not scattered all over the
bottom of the ocean Larry Vance believes
mh370 is still largely intact because
he's sure captain zaharie ditched it
deliberately in more heroic
circumstances other pilots have proved
that a water landing is possible
the images of the miracle on the Hudson
US Airways flight 1 4 5 9 s crash
landing on New York's Hudson River in
2009 are unforgettable another infamous
water landing Ethiopia Airlines flight
961 hijacked and out of fuel captured on
amateur video miraculously 50 of the 175
people aboard survived even in the worst
conditions controlled water landings can
leave the plane largely intact with
little wreckage and the wreckage so far
recovered from mh370 may be further
evidence it was piloted to the end and
was not a high-speed impact Larry for
you what is the significance of the
first pit of debris that washed up off
Africa sure if this was a high-speed
dive this piece would not exist
Larry Vance believes this recovered
flaperon from mh370 s right-wing
reconstructed for the official ATSB
investigation would have been massively
damaged if there'd been a high-speed
crash what would happen instead is that
is that this piece would hit at a great
great high speed in the front of it
would be crusty in its Hollow the water
would invade inside and it would just
explode from the inside out so this
piece would not even exist and to Larry
there are other damning clues the
erosion of the flaperons
trailing edge would happen because the
flap was extended down and the forces of
the water would be enormous and this is
what made this all erode here at the
back
the flaps could not be extended down
unless a pilot was in control of the
aircraft and the reason for doing that
would be to land the plane thereby
keeping it intact leaving as little
debris as possible Martin this is the
ats-v except that the flaps were down
that was not the assumption when we were
defining our search area do you have
proof that they won't extend it no and
this is the this is the point that we've
been trying to make that there are two
viable theories that someone was at the
controls of that aircraft and applying
control inputs at the end of flight well
they were not and there's evidence that
supports both of those theories I think
that most people will agree that the
flaps were down not only were they down
they were fully extended always saying
in the Raymond Larry is that the
evidence is not yet sufficient to draw
as firm a conclusion as you appeared to
have done my contention is that that's
the the starting point up here is is not
supported by the evidence so which parts
of the evidence are not correct the fact
that the airplane ran out of fuel it
didn't run out of fuel the fact that so
your evidence for that is the fact that
the flaps were down in a conductor to
control the fact that they you can't
give a speculation the flaps may have
been down whether you'd now is
speculation to you to me there's
evidence to support it and as this
ditching would not be something that
would be easily done what's what would
be the average wave height on that day
do you know 3 to 4 meters 3 to 4 meters
that's that's quite sizable waves that
is going to create a lot of damage on
the airplane I think you could do a
successful ditching in a big aircraft in
that sea as Larry is saying I think you
could end up with wasn't the aircraft
intact
I agree with you the fact is that this
is planned meticulously to make the
aircraft disappear and therefore if I
have to if I'm gonna make the aircraft
disappear I will be there at the end
unless something bad has happened to me
like you will control this is why I will
continue to be there I will make sure
I'm there to the end if you assume that
it
went into the ocean under control at
landing speed then the idea of it
fracturing into tens of thousands of
pieces goes down dramatically I think
it's probably also possible that the
airplane is in multiple large pieces so
you think that Larry's interpretation
has merit
absolutely it has merit adding weight to
the rogue pilot scenario the captain
zaharie planned to stay at the controls
until the end was an eerie flight
simulation found on his home computer
charting a course that ended in the
southern Indian Ocean
Simon Hardy reveals a stunning truth in
zaharie's flight simulation he didn't
plot an end point leaving himself
nowhere to land but the surface of the
ocean it's either a series of massive
coincidences which are getting more and
more and on top of each other is looking
less and less like a coincidence
or it's an intentional act for someone
who is doing something very clever
coming up are we on the verge of finding
the lost wreckage when you look at it
and you go back into the history of
commercial jet aviation with fare-paying
passengers on board we've always found
the airplane that's next on 60 minutes
the search for mh370
has not ended as we speak the hunt goes
on in the depths of the southern Indian
Ocean where a ship called the seabed
constructor owned by private company
ocean infinity has been operating since
January it's searching an area north of
the previous search zone but that search
will end probably next month and with it
perhaps the last chance of ever finding
the missing plane and its passengers of
ever answering the question what
happened to mh370
for those who say to keep searching for
mh370 is futile history has a lesson Air
France 447
which plummeted into the Atlantic in
2009 while some surface wreckage was
recovered a year-long underwater search
failed to find a single trace of the
plane on the ocean floor and was
abandoned a year later in 2011 the team
that located the Titanic began a new
search with new technology for Air
France 447 they found the missing
aircraft in a week now similar
technology is being used in the hunt for
mh370 a swarm of highly advanced
autonomous underwater vehicles deployed
around the clock from their mothership
the seabed constructor they've been
searching up to 1,100 square kilometers
a day since January but critically
they're looking to the north of the
original search area an area partially
defined by the drift analysis work of
Professor Patty Ruchi do you think ocean
infinity might have success what I was
hoping they would you talk about hope
these took hundred years almost to find
Titanic and this you know we're now
finding World War one and World War two
submarines in shipwrecks and so there's
always hope when our systems get better
and we have better technology there are
the families of 239 people out there
that at the moment still do not have an
answer to what happened to their loved
ones and some level of closure comes
with finding the aircraft so that's the
reason for continuing but on the other
side of this you've got government
saying the cost of this at some point
outweighs any benefits we will get from
it and that's what we elect governments
to do I may not agree with them in this
case because I'm still passionately
committed to finding the aircraft when
you look at it and you go back into the
history of commercial jet aviation
with fare-paying passengers on board
we've always found the airplane to have
one that we can't find is one of
aviation probably Aviation's greatest
single mystery and aviation does not do
well with mysteries and that's why so
much effort has been put into it and is
it an effort that you think should keep
going absolutely if we're not looking we
can't find it to just give up at this
point I'm not prepared to do that the
search for mh370 is unparalleled in
aviation history using the keenest minds
and the most advanced science the
Australian led investigation has
exhausted the most probable scenarios at
this stage sadly the result does not
mirror the effort but with no plane the
unlikely has become the likely for
investigators that mh370 may have been
flown beyond any feasible search
parameters it's the nightmare scenario
leaving a whole lot of ocean still to be
searched if we have the will to do it
I'm not sure given the likely cost of
extending the search for this aircraft
how much hope it is reasonable to hold
out and I think the other thing is a
data we have already means that we can
can form a view
broadly speaking about what happened
Cheers the likelihood of recurrence that
can be done now
without finding the plane without
finding the plane so are you saying in
your opinion it's not necessary to find
the plane it's not necessary to keep
searching it's highly desirable it's not
necessary to the basics of investigating
and understanding what happened here so
that's from the point of view of
understanding this event all I'm saying
is the basic conclusions about what
happened here are already available on
the evidence that is sitting there but
do we all agree I mean what is the
conclusion what actually happened to the
plane so this was planned this was
deliberate and it was done over an
extended period of time I think that the
general public the traveling public can
take comfort in the fact that there is a
consensus growing
consensus that this was a criminal act
and therefore it was not a problem with
the airplane and the fact that it was a
criminal act actually simplifies it down
to what can you do to prevent somebody
who has already has control of an
airplane from doing whatever they want
to do with that airplane can you do that
[Music]
just this year
Amanda Lawton and her partner Dave
welcomed a new generation to their
family
Bobby named in memory of his grandfather
is now three months old sadly he will
never get to meet his grandparents Bob
and Kathy do you tell Bobby about his
grandparents about your mom and dad I a
little bit too young just yet but I I do
wonder you know when the questions will
come up how do you explain that to a
little kid and without any answers
ourselves you know they've they've had
an accident but it's not like you can
say they disappeared and but that's
that's pretty much the story isn't
will you ever accept that the task is
too great the ocean is too big the
variables are too many I don't want to
believe that not with today's technology
it has to be found we want to know where
I loved ones are their final resting
place and what happened and the search
must go on for that closure
so you're saying please don't give up
please don't give up I'm sure Amanda
Lawton speaks for every family who has
lost loved ones on mh370 our thoughts
are with them all